`RichTooltip/Popover` component - `RichTooltip` component documentation [04b] (#2040)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/rich-tooltip/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

## Usage

### When to use

- For adding extra information, in the form of structured content, to a UI element.
- When it’s necessary to _temporarily persist_ extra information in the UI; e.g., if the user benefits from cross-referencing information in the component with other elements in the UI.

!!! Info

**Temporarily persist:** By this, we mean the component will remain open so the content within can be cross-referenced with the rest of the UI until it's explicitly dismissed by the user. More details are in the [interaction](#interaction) section.
!!!

### When not to use

- For extra information that consists of basic text, consider using the [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) instead.
- For complex functions that change or alter the UI, consider a [Dropdown](/components/dropdown) instead.
- As a double-confirmation for destructive actions, use a [Modal](/components/modal) instead.

> - If the information is **essential** to the user completing a task. In this case, consider placing this information within the page and associated with a specific UI element.

Author: Yep, this is cleaner, thanks!

![Example of adjusting the offset of the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-offset-dont.png)
!!!

## Interaction

The Rich Tooltip supports two interaction methods: a `On hover / On focus` ("soft") interaction and a `On click` interaction. Which one to use depends on:

- The type and complexity of content displayed by the component.
- Whether _temporarily persisting_ the content in the UI is necessary or beneficial to the user.

Independent of which interaction is used, the Rich Tooltip can be dismissed by clicking outside of the component or with the `ESC` key.

## Toggle

### Default

By default, we provide a [Toggle](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=specifications#toggle-1) component which should be used in the majority of cases along with the Rich Tooltip. This component ensures that the toggle is perceivable, visually consistent, and can be used inline with other content or standalone as part of the layout flow.

#### How to use

Consider these guidelines when using the default Toggle component:

!!! Do

When used in a block of text, use the "text only"/"no icon" variant, as the icon can unnecessarily break the reading flow of the content.

> ![Text only underline](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-toggle-text-only.png)

Reviewer: @jorytindall in the image, the color of the toggle text is not correct, it should be `foreground-strong` independently from the surrounding text. Right?

Reviewer: Upon inspection, I think many other (all?) images are using `Foreground/Primary` color for the text/icon instead of `Foreground/Strong`

Author: Hmmmm, that must have been something that didn't cross over into the website assets. I'll make sure all of these are updated.

Author: Ok I believe I've updated all of these.

!!!

!!! Do

Instead, place the Toggle component inline with the Badge to communicate the existence of a Rich Tooltip.

![Example of pairing the default toggle with a Badge](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-badge-do.png)
!!!

!!! Dont

Don’t toggle a Rich Tooltip from a form element like a [Text Input](/components/form/text-input), [Select](/components/form/select), [Textarea](/components/form/textarea), or form primitive like a [Label](/components/form/primitives#formlabel) or [HelperText](/components/form/primitives#helpertext).

![Example of toggling a Rich Tooltip from a form element](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-form-input-dont.png)

The following example using HelperText will not be read out as interactive to users with screen readers, only the text will be read. More details on this recommendation can be found in the [Helper Text documentation](/components/form/primitives?tab=code#formhelpertext-1).

![Example within Helper Text](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-helper-text-dont.png)
!!!

!!! Do

> Instead, include additional details in a [Reveal](/components/reveal).

Reviewer: @jorytindall so we're not suggesting anymore to use an icon next to the form label?

Author: Wouldn't this have the same problems with accessibility as including it in the helper text? I had initially included that example, but within the helper text only the text will be read to a screen reader, which in the case of an icon-only variant would that be the aria label?

I did a quick test of this in the showcase, and I'm not really sure that what we outlined for interactive elements [here](https://helios.hashicorp.design/components/form/primitives?tab=code#formhelpertext-1) is true. I tested with voiceover and for the icon paired with the label it read the "description" as the "generic content" within the bubble, and the same for the helper text and noted that the button was expanded. However, in testing the example linked above, only the text of the link is read out. Are links treated differently in this case than buttons? Can you confirm this as well? If this is the case, then I think we could include both of these examples, unless I'm missing something.

cc. @MelSumner

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure the content of the popover won't be read out _naturally_, the user with a screen reader has a few more ways of exploring content using arrow keys when the SR is turned on.

## Usage

### When to use

- For adding extra information to a UI element that consists of more than a single sentence.

> - When it’s necessary to persist extra information in the UI; e.g., if the user benefits from cross-referencing information in the component with other elements in the UI.

Author: Yeah, I hear you on the antithesis point, but I think it actually makes sense in the context. Good suggestion!

### When not to use

- For extra information that consists of basic text, consider using the [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) instead.
- For complex functions that change or alter the UI, consider a [Dropdown](/components/dropdown) instead.
- As a double-confirmation for destructive actions, use a [Modal](/components/modal) instead.
- If the information is **essential** to the user completing a task. Consider placing this information within the page and associated with a specific UI element.

### Rich Tooltip vs. Tooltip

While there is overlap between the Rich Tooltip and the "standard" [Tooltip](/components/tooltip), which component to use depends on:

- the complexity of the content
- whether structural or layout elements are used
- whether there are interactive elements; e.g., links or micro-interactions

> - whether the component should persist within the UI

Author: I've tried to stop myself from using "ephemeral" so much because it's a verbose term. But I've added some content in here stressing the "temporary" nature of persistence.

![Default spacing for the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-offset-spacing.png)

!!! Info

In some cases, adding an offset may be necessary to adjust the position of the RichTooltip. Changing the default offset should be done sparingly and only when it’s necessary to make sure that the component does not obscure or cover the toggle or other important information.
!!!

!!! Do

Adjust the offset when the Rich Tooltip needs to be positioned in a way that it doesn’t obstruct the UI element or information it is associated with.

![Example of adjusting the offset of the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-offset-do.png)
!!!

!!! Dont

Don’t add extra offset if the Rich Tooltip would block important information, appear disconnected from the element it is meant to provide information for, or cause confusion for the user.

![Example of adjusting the offset of the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-offset-dont.png)
!!!

## Toggle

The Rich Tooltip supports both a default toggle (InfoText) to use the component in a consistent manner, but also supports generic or custom elements passed to the toggle element.

> ### InfoText

Author: Added some more "concrete-ish" usage guidelines here, but I'm trying to keep it a bit generic.

Be default, we provide the [InfoText](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=specifications#infotext-1) component which accounts for the majority of use-cases for the Rich Tooltip. This component ensures that the toggle is perceivable, visually consistent, and can be used inline with other content or standalone as part of the layout flow.

!!! Info

For now, the InfoText component should only be used with the Rich Tooltip. In Figma, this component is published separately for flexibility, while in Ember the component is more coupled with the Rich Tooltip.
!!!

> #### Variants

Author: The reason why I included this content here and in the way that I did was to capture the variant content more simply  without creating a separate page. I'll try to clean this up a bit though.

> - `size`: `small`, `medium` (default), `large`

Author: Yep, removed this.

- `hasText`: boolean; defaults to true
- `hasTrailingIcon`: boolean; defaults to true
- `hasLeadingIcon`: boolean

> #### States

Author: Moved this to specs

![Example of pairing the default toggle with a Badge](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-badge-do.png)
!!!

!!! Dont

Don’t toggle a Rich Tooltip from a form element like a [Text Input](/components/form/text-input), [Select](/components/form/select), or [Textarea](/components/form/textarea).

![Example of toggling a Rich Tooltip from a form element](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-form-input-dont.png)
!!!

!!! Do

Instead, use the [Label](/components/form/primitives#formlabel) and [HelperText](/components/form/primitives#helpertext) primitives to communicate details about the field. If _absolutely_ necessary to provide more details about a form element, use the InfoText within [Helper Text](/components/form/primitives#formhelpertext).

![Example within Helper Text](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-helper-text-do.png)

However, interactive elements in HelperText will not be read out as interactive to users with screen readers, only the text will be read. More details on this recommendation can be found in the [Helper Text documentation](/components/form/primitives?tab=code#formhelpertext-1).
!!!

!!! Do

> If it's necessary to persist the Rich Tooltip within the UI, consider using a `secondary` [Button](/components/button) as the toggle element. In this scenario use the [`on click`](#interaction) interaction to persist the component.

Author: I'll pivot this to use the InfoText element.

![Example using a Button to toggle the component](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-secondary-button.png)

This can be useful when displaying instructional information or details that reference different parts of the UI.
!!!

!!! Dont

Don’t use a [Button](/components/button) to toggle a Rich Tooltip if the Button performs a function. This can cause an unexpected overlap in the interaction with the Button and the toggleing of the Rich Tooltip.

![Example of incorrectly toggling a Rich Tooltip with a button](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-button-dont.png)
!!!

## Interaction

> The Rich Tooltip supports two different interaction methods: a `hover/focus` ("soft") interaction and a `click` interaction. Which one to use depends on the type and complexity of content displayed by the component, and whether _persisting_ the content in the UI is necessary or beneficial to the user.

Author: I've added some further specificity here.

## Content

We are not prescriptive about what type of content a Rich Tooltip can contain; consider these common examples when determining whether the Rich Tooltip is appropriate for your use case.

<!-- Ensure that we have alignment for all of these scenarios -->

### Text with links

This is a common use case for a Rich Tooltip due to the lack of support for interactive content in the standard [Tooltip](/components/tooltip).

![Link within text in the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-content-links.png)

### Structured content

The Rich Tooltip supports more structure and layout methods to better organize the content hierarchically.

![Structured content within the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-content-structure.png)

### Key-value pairs

Use the Rich Tooltip to display supplemental key-value pairs or metadata related to an element.

![Key-value pairs within the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-content-key-value-pair.png)

### Overflow content

![Displaying overflow content with the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-content-overflow.png)

> ### Onboarding and walkthrough

Author: Thinking on this point that we spoke about, I think we should just remove these sections entirely rather than have a section for "Future use cases". Could be a bit confusing for consumers and might do more harm than good.

> ### Onboarding and walkthrough

Author: for now I'll comment it out, we can determine whether it's useful at a later point.

## Usage

### When to use

> - For adding extra information to a UI element that consists of more than a simple sentence, or structured content with a specific layout.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For adding extra information to a UI element that consists of more than a simple sentence, or for structured content with a specific layout.
```

!!! Info

**Temporarily persist:** by this we mean the component will remain visible within UI until it is explicitly dismissed by the user, allowing the toggling open of the component and cross-referencing the content it contains with the rest of the UI. More details on this can be found in the [interaction](#interaction) section.
!!!

### When not to use

- For extra information that consists of basic text, consider using the [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) instead.
- For complex functions that change or alter the UI, consider a [Dropdown](/components/dropdown) instead.
- As a double-confirmation for destructive actions, use a [Modal](/components/modal) instead.
- If the information is **essential** to the user completing a task. In this case, consider placing this information within the page and associated with a specific UI element.

### Rich Tooltip vs. Tooltip

While there is overlap between the Rich Tooltip and the "standard" [Tooltip](/components/tooltip), which component to use depends on:

- the complexity of the content

> - whether structural or layout elements are used

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- whether structural or layout elements are required
```

- whether there are interactive elements; e.g., links or micro-interactions
- whether the component should persist within the UI

The _majority_ of use-cases can be categorized one of two ways:

1. "Standard" Tooltip: simple, text-based content with support for rudimentary formatting (_italic_, **bold**, `monospace`, etc).

> 2. Rich Tooltip: _relatively_ more complex, dynamic content with support for different layouts, organization of content, links, micro-interactions, diagrams, etc.

Reviewer 4: Agreed, brevity here is preferred.

> 2. Rich Tooltip: _relatively_ more complex, dynamic content with support for different layouts, organization of content, links, micro-interactions, diagrams, etc.

Author: Yeah, this is much better, I was adding too much detail and duplicative content here 🙇

View more detailed examples of the content the Rich Tooltip could contain in the [content](#content) section.

## Placement

> A Rich Tooltip can be placed in various positions relative to the UI element it is associated with. Choose the placement based on the context and available space around the toggle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Rich Tooltip can be placed in various positions relative to the UI element it is associated with.
```

> A Rich Tooltip can be placed in various positions relative to the UI element it is associated with. Choose the placement based on the context and available space around the toggle.

Reviewer 3: You could open a follow PR to remove it from the `Tooltip` docs later.

The most common options are: `top`, `bottom`, `left`, `right`.

> ![Placement examples of the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-placement.png)

Author: This is another instance of somewhat mimicking the Tooltip documentation. I believe only these options are show for simplificity as they are (anecdotally) the most common.

The Rich Tooltip supports additional placement options: `top-start`, `top-end`, `bottom-start`, `bottom-end`, `left-start`, `left-end`, `right-start`,and `right-end`.

!!! Info

The placement property is _relative_ to the element that toggles the component, rather than the direction of the pointer. E.g., `placement=left` will render the component to the _left_ of the toggle, but the pointer will be pointing to the right.
!!!

> ### Collision detection

Reviewer: The `placement` is the initial location of the tooltip. It may even stay in that position if the user doesn't scroll or resize the page. Collision detection kicks in only in certain conditions. So designers/developers may want to set a preferred (initial) location for the tooltip, depending on where it's better it appears (eg to avoid overlapping other content).

The Rich Tooltip supports collision detection, meaning the `placement` property might be overridden depending on the position of the component relative to the edge of the viewport. This ensures that the component doesn't extend outside of the viewport while still being associated with the toggle element.

![Example of collision detection in the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-collision-detection.png)

## Offset

The default recommended distance between the toggle and the Rich Tooltip pointer is 4px.

![Default spacing for the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-offset-spacing.png)

!!! Info

> In some cases, adding an offset may be necessary to adjust the position of the RichTooltip. Changing the default offset should be done sparingly and only when it’s necessary to make sure that the component does not obscure or cover the toggle or other important information.

Author: Removed this section.

> !!!

Author: I think this is now a bit less relevant given that we're being more prescriptive about the Toggle, so I'll rework this a bit.

!!! Dont

Don’t add extra offset if the Rich Tooltip would block important information, appear disconnected from the element it is meant to provide information for, or cause confusion for the user.

![Example of adjusting the offset of the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-offset-dont.png)
!!!

## Interaction

The Rich Tooltip supports two different interaction methods: a `hover/focus` ("soft") interaction and a `click` interaction. Which one to use depends on the type and complexity of content displayed by the component, whether _temporarily persisting_ the content in the UI is necessary or beneficial to the user, and whether the element toggling the Rich Tooltip is interactive or not.

1. `Hover/focus` (default): displays when the mouse enters the toggle or the toggle receives focus. The `RichTooltip` has a timeout by default and will persist for 500 milliseconds (0.5 seconds) _after_ the mouse leaves the toggle, or the focus is removed from it.

> 2. `On click`: displays when the user clicks the toggle with a mouse or if the toggle receives a keyboard event (`spacebar`, `enter/return`). If the content of the toggle element is interactive, an `on click` interaction _cannot_ be used.

Reviewer: I think this has been addressed. If not please add a suggestion using the latest version of the content (this is now outdated).

> Independent of which interaction is used, the Rich Tooltip can be dismissed by clicking outside of the component or with the `esc` key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Independent of which interaction is used, the Rich Tooltip can be dismissed by clicking outside of the component or with the `ESC` key.
```

Keys are typically all caps in technical writing. Have we not been doing that? We should be consistent with ourselves but make a note for the backlog in case we haven't been doing this correctly.

## Toggle

The Rich Tooltip supports both a default toggle (InfoText) to use the component in a consistent manner, but also supports generic or custom elements passed to the toggle element.

### InfoText

> Be default, we provide the [InfoText](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=specifications#infotext-1) component which accounts for the majority of use-cases for the Rich Tooltip. This component ensures that the toggle is perceivable, visually consistent, and can be used inline with other content or standalone as part of the layout flow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, we provide the [InfoText](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=specifications#infotext-1) component which accounts for the majority of use-cases for the Rich Tooltip. This component ensures that the toggle is perceivable, visually consistent, and can be used inline with other content or standalone as part of the layout flow.
```

!!! Info

> For now, the InfoText component should only be used with the Rich Tooltip. In Figma, this component is published separately for flexibility, while in Ember the component is coupled with the Rich Tooltip.

Author: I've removed this, confirmed with @didoo earlier today. As such, I've reorganized the Figma components as well

!!!

> #### How to use

Reviewer 4: Agreed on this

> #### How to use

Author: Ok I've simplified this section a bit and added some "do" images.

Consider these guidelines when using the InfoText component:

> - Use the text + trailing icon variant by default.

Reviewer 5: I believe I left a similar comment in Figma last week, but why are we providing text + icon variants, let alone recommending them as the default? This doubles up on the visual indication that the element is interactive, which adds to its weight and prominence in the UI. Why not recommend text only or icon only which should each provide enough visual indication on their own?

Author: I removed the default recommendation, but I think that providing flexibility for this element is the best solution because it supports the majority of use cases we've identified:

- Inline, as in a paragraph (text only)
- As a standalone or block element (icon leading or trailing)
- When paired with other UI elements that act as "labels" (icon only). This would be when using it with a badge or a button that aren't support as custom toggle elements.

Reviewer 5: What is the default variant of the component (in Figma and code)?

Reviewer: In code it's a "block". In Figma I don't think there is such differentiation.

@heatherlarsen did @jorytindall response above address the comment?

> - Use the text + trailing icon variant by default.
> - Use the `isUnderlineOnly` variant within text layers and blocks of text (only applicable to Figma).
> - When using the `iconOnly` variant without text, ensure that the component is paired with other textual elements (like a headline) or elements being described by the Rich Tooltip. Don’t use it in isolation or on it’s own.
> - When used in a block of text, we recommend omitting the icon as this can unnecessarily break up the reading flow of the content.

Reviewer 5: Re-organized based on importance and possible usage. 
```suggestion
- Use the "trailing icon" variant by default.
- When used in a block of text, use the "text only"/"no icon" variant, as the icon can unnecessarily break the reading flow of the content.
- When using the "icon only" variant, ensure the component is paired with other textual elements (like a headline) or elements described by the Rich Tooltip. Don’t use it in isolation or on its own.
- Use the "isUnderlineOnly" variant within text layers and blocks of text (only applicable to Figma).
```

#### Size

![Sizes of the InfoText](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-info-text-sizes.png)

#### Icon

> ![Sizes of the InfoText](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-info-text-icon.png)

Reviewer 5: Alt text needs to be updated for this image

#### Underline

Only available in the InfoText component in Figma, the `isUnderlineOnly` property allows the component to be used **inline** a block of text like a paragraph.

> ![Sizes of the InfoText](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-info-text-underline.png)

Reviewer 5: Alt text needs to be updated for this image. This screenshot gets lost in the rest of the documentation. Can you include more of the UI so this looks like an example instead of continued documentation?

Author: Cleaned up a bit and added some more contextual UI.

#### Variants

- `size`: `small`, `medium`, `large`
- `hasText`: boolean; defaults to true
- `iconPosition`: `leading`, `trailing` (default), `only`, `none`

### Custom toggle

While almost any element can be used to toggle the Rich Tooltip, custom elements must conform to the following usability and accessibility success criteria:

- Must have a minimum target area of 24x24 pixels.
- Must have a minimum contrast ratio between the background/surface color of 3:1.

> - Should use actionable language or be paired with a label to communicate that additional context is obfuscated away from the user.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Should use actionable language or be paired with a label to communicate that additional context is hidden from the user.
```

More information about this success criteria can be found in the [accessibility](?tab=accessibility) section.

!!! Dont

> Don’t use a [Badge](/components/badge) or [BadgeCount](/components/badge-count) as the toggle for the Rich Tooltip; Badges are intentionally non-interactive elements and don't visually communicate that content is hidden behind a `hover`, `click`, or `focus` interaction.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Don’t use a [Badge](/components/badge) or [BadgeCount](/components/badge-count) as the toggle for the Rich Tooltip. Badges are intentionally non-interactive elements and don't visually communicate that content is hidden behind a `hover`, `click`, or `focus` interaction.
```

![Example of pairing the default toggle with a Badge](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-badge-do.png)
!!!

!!! Dont

Don’t toggle a Rich Tooltip from a form element like a [Text Input](/components/form/text-input), [Select](/components/form/select), or [Textarea](/components/form/textarea).

![Example of toggling a Rich Tooltip from a form element](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-form-input-dont.png)
!!!

!!! Do

Instead, use the [Label](/components/form/primitives#formlabel) and [HelperText](/components/form/primitives#helpertext) primitives to communicate details about the field. If _absolutely_ necessary to provide more details about a form element, use the InfoText inline within [Helper Text](/components/form/primitives#formhelpertext).

![Example within Helper Text](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-trigger-helper-text-do.png)

However, interactive elements in HelperText will not be read out as interactive to users with screen readers, only the text will be read. More details on this recommendation can be found in the [Helper Text documentation](/components/form/primitives?tab=code#formhelpertext-1).

> !!!

Reviewer 5: Should we recommend this if it isn't accessible? What about putting the InfoText icon next to the field (like in the badge example above)? Or recommend using a reveal for the additional details instead?

Author: This was an attempt to mimic the content we have [here](https://helios.hashicorp.design/components/form/primitives?tab=code#formhelpertext-1) about links within Helper Text.

I'm torn on this:
- In an ideal world all of the necessary context would be expressed through the label and the helper text, though sometimes we've seen this isn't true
- It is a beneficial use case if more information is provided, but the fact it maybe not be apparent to screen readers is 👎 
- Does the idea that we've termed this as "non-essential" information have any impact here?

Reviewer 5: The difference with the link you provided is that it's not provided as a recommendation; it's provided as a possibility with a warning. I understand that there may be a need to provide additional context, which is why I provided a couple of alternative methods instead of including this in the HelperText. Why not recommend either of those options instead, as they're bound to lead to a more accessible experience? The "reveal" pattern is already used quite frequently in HCP forms.

Author: Ah, ok I understand now, agreed. I've updated this to recommend against and use a reveal instead.

## Content

> We are not prescriptive about what type of content a Rich Tooltip can contain; consider these common examples when determining whether the Rich Tooltip is appropriate for your use case.

Reviewer 5: A more positive spin.
```suggestion
The Rich Tooltip is built to be flexible enough to support a variety of use cases and content. Consider these common examples when determining whether it's appropriate for your use case.
```

Author: Yep, thank you that's much better!

<!-- Ensure that we have alignment for all of these scenarios -->

### Text with links

> This is a common use case for a Rich Tooltip due to the lack of support for interactive content in the standard [Tooltip](/components/tooltip).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This is a common use case for a Rich Tooltip due to the lack of support for interactive content in the [Tooltip](/components/tooltip).
```

![Link within text in the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-content-links.png)

### Structured content

> The Rich Tooltip supports more structure and layout methods to better organize the content hierarchically.

Reviewer 3: "supports _**more**_ structure and layout methods"

More than what? Than the regular `Tooltip`? If so, we should say more explicitly for clarity.

Author: Added a bit more clarity here, thanks for the note

![Structured content within the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-content-structure.png)

### Key-value pairs

Use the Rich Tooltip to display supplemental key-value pairs or metadata related to an element.

> ![Key-value pairs within the Rich Tooltip](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-content-key-value-pair.png)

Reviewer 5: [nit] Can the examples use consistent styling so we can subtly nudge folks in one direction or the other?

## Usage

### When to use

- For adding extra information to a UI element that consists of more than a simple sentence, or structured content with a specific layout.
- When it’s necessary to _temporarily persist_ extra information in the UI; e.g., if the user benefits from cross-referencing information in the component with other elements in the UI.

!!! Info

**Temporarily persist:** by this we mean the component will remain visible within UI until it is explicitly dismissed by the user, allowing the toggling open of the component and cross-referencing the content it contains with the rest of the UI. More details on this can be found in the [interaction](#interaction) section.
!!!

### When not to use

- For extra information that consists of basic text, consider using the [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) instead.

> - For complex functions that change or alter the UI, consider a [Dropdown](/components/dropdown) instead.

Reviewer 4: Wondering if we need to draw a comparison with the dropdown here? I can't imagine (but maybe I'm wrong) that consumers will confuse when to use the dropdown and when to use the richtooltip?

Author: One of the potential use cases that we identified was placing small "micro-interactions" in the component, like toggling things on/off, things like that. While we don't have clear examples of consumers do this, there's a bit of potential overlap in the visual language between the two I think it's useful to call out.

Independent of which interaction is used, the Rich Tooltip can be dismissed by clicking outside of the component or with the `esc` key.

## Toggle

The Rich Tooltip supports both a default toggle (InfoText) to use the component in a consistent manner, but also supports generic or custom elements passed to the toggle element.

### InfoText

Be default, we provide the [InfoText](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=specifications#infotext-1) component which accounts for the majority of use-cases for the Rich Tooltip. This component ensures that the toggle is perceivable, visually consistent, and can be used inline with other content or standalone as part of the layout flow.

!!! Info

For now, the InfoText component should only be used with the Rich Tooltip. In Figma, this component is published separately for flexibility, while in Ember the component is coupled with the Rich Tooltip.
!!!

#### How to use

Consider these guidelines when using the InfoText component:

- Use the text + trailing icon variant by default.
- Use the `isUnderlineOnly` variant within text layers and blocks of text (only applicable to Figma).

> - When using the `iconOnly` variant without text, ensure that the component is paired with other textual elements (like a headline) or elements being described by the Rich Tooltip. Don’t use it in isolation on or it’s own.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- When using the `iconOnly` variant without text, ensure that the component is paired with other textual elements (like a headline) or elements being described by the Rich Tooltip. Don’t use it in isolation or on it’s own.
```

- When used in a block of text, we recommend omitting the icon as this can unnecessarily break up the reading flow of the content.

#### Size

![Sizes of the InfoText](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-info-text-sizes.png)

#### Icon

![Sizes of the InfoText](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-info-text-icon.png)

#### Underline

Only available in the InfoText component in Figma, the `isUnderlineOnly` property allows the component to be used **inline** a block of text like a paragraph.

![Sizes of the InfoText](/assets/components/rich-tooltip/rich-tooltip-info-text-underline.png)

#### Variants

- `size`: `small`, `medium`, `large`
- `hasText`: boolean; defaults to true

> - `hasTrailingIcon`: boolean; defaults to true
> - `hasLeadingIcon`: boolean

Reviewer 4: I looked at the code side and I believe it uses icon position (leading [default]/trailing). I'm not sure if this is the appropriate format, but suggesting: 

```suggestion
- `iconPosition`: leading(default) / trailing
```

Author: Oh good catch, this was updated but I didn't update it here. Thanks!
